*** NOTE: these instructions are a work-in-progress and may not be completely accurate. ***

These instructions are for configuring a custom algorithm without using any programming.

1. CREATE CONFIG FILE
Navigate to the directory with the game executable.  The game executable will be called either "MRIBreathingGame" or "Inspire".  In this directory create a file called "customalgorithm.txt"

2. SPECIFY CUSTOM ALGORITHM
Edit the file created in step 1 to specify the custom algorithm.  This is done by typing in a caret (^) and pipe (|) delimited string, such as:

2^10|1^90

The number before the caret specifies how long the game should wait before spawning the pick-up (in seconds).

The number after the caret specifies where the pick-up should spawn (0 - 100).  A zero tells the game to spawn the pick-up at the bottom of the player's range-of-motion, while a 100 tells it to spawn the pick-up at the top of the player's range-of-motion.  A number between 0 and 100 specifies that the pick-up should spawn that percentage of the way up from the bottom.

The pipe separates one specification for when/where a pick-up should spawn from the next.

Upon reaching the end of the string, the algorithm starts over at the beginning.

Using the example above, it tells the game to wait 2 seconds before spawning a pick-up 10% of the way up from the bottom, then to wait 1 second before spawning one 90% of the way up.  The third pick-up is spawned 2 seconds later and is 10% of the way up from the bottom...


3. SELECT CUSTOM ALGORITHM IN GAME
On the game's main menu there is a drop down that allows you to choose which algorithm to use; select the "Custom" option.

NOTE: The game is programmed such that if there is a problem with the custom algorithm file (or it is missing), it defaults to the BaseLine algorithm (i.e. the pick-ups are spawned at the bottom of the screen at 1 second intervals).  Thus if you don't see the pick-ups spawning as specified, check the error logs for problems.  The application should give you a meaningful error to help diagnose the problem (e.g. the file is missing/in the wrong directory, the data in the file is invalid, etc.)